GEP 01 updates. (#312)
iza-institute-of-labor-economics/gettsim: docs/geps/gep-01.rst

* Names follow standard Python conventions (``lowercase_with_underscores``).
  Abbreviations of words that form a part of these names are always followed by an
  underscore, unless it is the last word.
* Names should be long enough to be readable. However, we impose limits in order to make
  GETTSIM usable in languages, which place limits on characters (Stata, in particular).

  - Column names that are typically user-facing have a hard limit of 20 characters.

>     These columns are documented in `DEFAULT_TARGETS` in `gettsim/config.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    These columns include input variables and default targets (documented in `STANDARD_DATA_TYPES` and `DEFAULT_TARGETS` in `gettsim/config.py`).
```

Reviewer: We should probably rename `STANDARD_DATA_TYPES`

Author: Indeed. Suggestions?

We impose a hard limit of 20 characters for all column names that typically user-facing.
This is for the benefit of Stata users, who face a strict limit of 32 characters for
their column names. Furthermore, where developers using other languages may store
different experiments in different variables, Stata users' only chance to distinguish
them is to append characters to the column names.

For the same reason, there is a hard limit of 32 characters for variables that users may
reasonably request.

If a column is only present for internal use, it starts with an underscore and there is
no restriction on the number of characters. Internal columns should be used sparingly.

Across variations that include the same identifier, this identifier should not be
changed, even if it leads to long variable names (e.g., ``kinderfreibetrag``,
``_zu_verst_eink_kein_kinderfreibetrag_tu``). This makes searching for identifiers
easier and less error-prone.

The default time unit is a year. If a column refers to a different time unit, an
underscore plus one of {``m``, ``w``, ``t``} will indicate the time unit.

The default unit a column refers to is an individual. In case a household or tax unit is

> the relevant unit, an underscore plus one of {``hh``, ``tu``} will indicate the level of

Reviewer 2: Should we rename `tu` to something in German? It is not exactly an institutional feature like the variables names but  time units (`t`) is also in German (or should we change that to `d`?).

Plus, should we state that time unit is appended always before `hh` or `tu` if both are used?

Author: > Should we rename tu to something in German? It is not exactly an institutional feature like the variables names but time units (t) is also in German (or should we change that to d?).

The latter, which is also used in the parameters. Good catch! 

> Plus, should we state that time unit is appended always before hh or tu if both are used?

Yip. In fact, it is what the sentence below your quote states :smile:

Column names (a.k.a. "variables" in Stata)
------------------------------------------

> We impose a hard limit of 20 characters for all column names that typically user-facing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We impose a hard limit of 20 characters for all column names that typically returned to users.
```

there is demand, we could also support standardised variables like in `EUROMOD
<https://www.euromod.ac.uk/>`_ or the `CNEF <https://cnef.ehe.osu.edu/data/>`_ standard.

The default time unit is a year. If a column refers to a different time unit, an

> underscore plus one of {``m``, ``w``, ``t``} will indicate the time unite.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
underscore plus one of {``m``, ``w``, ``t``} will indicate the time unit.
```

Author: Thanks!

The structure of these parameters will be laid out in gep-3; we just note some
general naming considerations here.

- There is a hierarchical structure to these parameters in that each of them is
  associated with a group (e.g., ``arbeitsl_geld``, ``kinderzuschlag``). These groups or
  abbreviations thereof do not re-appear in the name of the parameter.
- Parameter names should be aligned with relevant column names. This makes searching for
  identifiers easier and less error-prone.

> Python Identifiers (Functions, Variables)

Reviewer: A bit contradictory that we mention functions here (which typically are also columns/potential targets and should be written in German.

Maybe mention helper functions instead?

Author: Great. Using 'other functions' now.
